At times the glue ETL exception occurs because there are not enough IP addresses in the subnet for the number of DPUs configured for the job. The solution to the issue is to use a subnet with 300 or more free IP addresses. The rationale for this explained hereafter.

When you run a Glue ETL job which uses a JDBC connection, AWS Glue creates elastic network interfaces (ENIs) in a VPC/private subnet to access your VPC data. These network interfaces then provide network connectivity for AWS Glue through your VPC. The number of ENIs depends on the number of data processing units (DPUs) selected for an AWS Glue ETL job. Specifically, you need as many ENI’s as the number of DPUs configured for the job.  AWS Glue DPU instances communicate with each other and with your JDBC-compliant database using ENIs. Each ENI is associated with an IP address, therefore, you need as many IP addresses as there are ENIs (DPUs). The number number of available IP addresses depends on the number of host bits allowed when subnetting. Therefore, the solution to the issue is to use a larger subnet with enough free IP addresses. 

By default, resources in a VPC can't be accessed from AWS Glue. To enable AWS Glue to access resources inside your VPC, you must provide additional VPC-specific configuration information that includes VPC subnet IDs and security group IDs. AWS Glue uses this information to set up elastic network interfaces that enable your function to connect securely to other resources in your private VPC.
