I further checked the back-end logs and observed a very small transient issue due to one of partition split happened on your table. I also see 'Query' operations are 'Strongly consistent read'. I would suggest only perform strongly consistent reads when is required.

For future reference, 500 errors can occur because of several possible reasons and are expected in lifetime of a Dynamodb table like network issue, hardware failure, partition split causing change of Mastership between replica nodes and so on. 

DynamoDB is a massive-scale distributed system, with thousands of servers in the back end fleet. Each of these servers has its own workload during a different time of the day, and each of them can fail at any time due to various reasons. When the DynamoDB service receives an API call from the client, the DynamoDB service gives the API call to one of the back-end servers for processing. If the back-end server is able to process the API call, the DynamoDB service returns a 200 OK back to the client. Since the API call is successfully processing in its first attempt, the client sees very small latency.
	
However, from time to time an API call cannot be successfully processed within a reasonable time frame in the first attempt, either because the specific back-end server is busy, or the specific back-end server has failed. In this case, the DynamoDB service waits for a server-side timeout, then automatically gives the same API call to another back-end server for processing. If the second attempt is successful, the client receives a 200 OK with an elevated latency, in a scenario where the second attempt also fails on the DynamoDB service side and there are more attempts needed on the service side, the client observes more latency and after the timeout setting is reached and if the API's still fail to do the job it sends the 500 status code to the client and you see SystemErrors.

As mentioned, these kind of system errors are transient but happen from time to time for a short time duration. As you have noticed, the errors usually last for a brief amount of time, which would get fixed automatically by the underlying DynamoDB infrastructure [1]. This is to be expected within the lifetime of a table. When your application receives this error, if possible please retry the failed requests until successful since the underlying issue should be temporary and transient. Please note that AWS SDKs have built-in retry logic, so you don't need to implement this on your own.

- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Programming.Errors.html
